So in the last lecture we created a template for pages. And then we mentioned that we have a feature in WordPress
called page templates where we can easily create different templates for pages.
So let's see how to do that. Let's go to our folder and let's create a new folder in the root directory.
And let's call it page-templates. And you can create page templates anywhere in your theme. I just
created a new folder just for organization. And let's create a new file and the file can also be called
anything.
But as a convention it's usually called page-something.
So the full page we had had a sidebar, so let's create another page template that will have the full width.
So let's call it  page-full.php.
And it'll be the same as page.php which is here. So let's copy this.
And the only difference is that we will remove the sidebar and this will be 12 instead of 8.
So now we created a page template. how to use it?
So when you're editing a page you should have an option here for the page template. But we don't see any option,
right? And that's because any page template you create you must define at the very top of the page in
a comment, in a PHP comment, that this is page template.
So we have to type "Template Name: " and then the name of the template.
So let's call it "Full
Width Page". And let's go back to edit the page.
And now you will have in the Page Attributes, you will have the templates and you can choose the "Default
template" which is page.php or the "Full Width Page" that we've just created.
So let's choose this one.
And let's view the page now.
And now as you can see it will take the full width.
So one thing you might want to create also in your theme. You might want to create a page template that
is completely blank.
So let's go to page templates and create a new file page. And call it page-blank.php. And let's copy the page-full.
So this one will be blank.
So the blank page should not contain any containers or rows or columns. So let's remove these.
And we'll just have the MAIN tag and the content of the page.
So let's go now and let's make this a blank page.
And we actually don't also need this white background.
So let's actually write
instead of using this template parts let's write a custom loop for this one.
So "while( have posts()) {the_post(); "
and let's close the while. And we would like to display the ARTICLE tag also
but now without any classes. We don't need any styling for this one.
So let's remove the custom classes that we added. And we'll just display the content.
So as you can see we now have a blank page completely. And the purpose of this page is that if you have for
example a drag and drop editor like visual composer integrated within your theme, you'd like to allow the
user to completely build their page.
So maybe they would like to add some component that will take the full width like a slider for example
and then after that maybe they would like to add rows and columns and stuff like that.
So this way you will allow users to have all of the space to create whatever they want
using some drag and drop components. And in this course we will probably take a look at how to integrate a
visual composer in your theme. Not completely sure yet but it's in my list of things to do.
So I think that's it for templates.
We now have all the templates that are required for you to release your theme. Let's in the next section discuss
another topic.